====================================================
CLAM: Computational Linguistics Application Mediator
	by Maarten van Gompel
	Centre for Language Studies
    Radboud University Nijmegen

	Licensed under GPLv3
		
	Website: http://proycon.github.io/clam

	Source repository: https://github.com/proycon/clam/

====================================================

CLAM allows you to quickly and transparently transform your Natural Language
Processing application into a RESTful webservice, with which both human
end-users as well as automated clients can interact. CLAM takes a description
of your system and wraps itself around the system, allowing end-users or
automated clients to upload input files to your application, start your
application with specific parameters of their choice, and download and view the
output of the application once it is completed.

CLAM is set up in a universal fashion, requiring minimal effort on the part of
the service developer. Your actual NLP application is treated as a black box,
of which only the parameters, input formats and output formats need to be
described. Your application itself needs not be network aware in any way, nor
aware of CLAM, and the handling and validation of input can be taken care of by
CLAM.

CLAM is entirely written in Python, runs on UNIX-derived systems, and is
available as open source under the GNU Public License (v3). It is set up in a
modular fashion, and offers an API, and as such is easily extendable. CLAM
communicates in a transparent XML format, and using XSL transformation offers a
full web 2.0 web-interface for human end users. 

For installation instructions, make sure to read the provided 'INSTALL' file!
For full documentation see the manual in docs/clam_manual.pdf , also accessible
through the CLAM website at http://proycon.github.io/clam . It is recommended
to read this prior to starting with CLAM. 

IMPORTANT NOTICE: It's discouraged to download the zip packages or tarballs
from github, either properly use git instead, or install CLAM from the Python
Package Index (http://pypi.python.org/pypi/CLAM), through easy_install, which
it the recommended way:

 $ sudo easy_install clam     

This will download CLAM automatically. If you obtained the git version and what
to install that:

 $ sudo ./setup.py install

For further installation instructions, please read the supplied INSTALL file.
