noWorkflow
==========

Copyright (c) 2014 Universidade Federal Fluminense (UFF). Copyright (c)
2014 Polytechnic Institute of New York University. All rights reserved.

The noWorkflow project aims at allowing scientists to benefit from
provenance data analysis even when they don't use a workflow system.
Also, the goal is to allow them to avoid using naming conventions to
store files originated in previous executions. Currently, when this is
not done, the result and intermediate files are overwritten by every new
execution of the pipeline.

noWorkflow was developed in Python and it currently is able to capture
provenance of Python scripts using Software Engineering techniques such
as abstract syntax tree (AST) analysis, reflection, and profiling, to
collect provenance without the need of a version control system or any
other environment.

Installing and using noWorkflow is simple and easy. Please check our
installation and basic usage guidelines below.

Team
----

The noWorkflow team is composed by researchers from Universidade Federal
Fluminense (UFF) in Brazil and New York University (NYU), in the USA.

-  Vanessa Braganholo (UFF)
-  Fernando Chirigati (NYU)
-  Juliana Freire (NYU)
-  David Koop (NYU)
-  Leonardo Murta (UFF)
-  Jo√£o Felipe Pimentel (UFF)

Publications
------------

[MURTA, L. G. P.; BRAGANHOLO, V.; CHIRIGATI, F. S.; KOOP, D.; FREIRE,
J.; noWorkflow: Capturing and Analyzing Provenance of Scripts. In:
International Provenance and Annotation Workshop (IPAW), 2014, Cologne,
Germany.]
(https://github.com/gems-uff/noworkflow/raw/master/docs/ipaw2014.pdf)

Quick Installation
------------------

To install noWorkflow, you should follow these basic instructions:

If you have pip, just run:

.. code:: bash

    $ pip install noworkflow[vis]

This installs both noWorkflow and flask. Flask is the requirement of the
visualization tool.

If you do not have pip, but already have Git (to clone our repository)
and Python:

.. code:: bash

    $ git clone git@github.com:gems-uff/noworkflow.git
    $ cd noworkflow/capture
    $ ./setup.py install

This installs noWorkflow on your system. You may need to install flask
if you want to use our visualization tool.

Basic Usage
-----------

noWorkflow is transparent in the sense that it requires neither changes
to the script, nor any laborious configuration. Run

.. code:: bash

    now --help

to learn the usage options.

To run noWorkflow with a script called *simulation.py* with input data
*data1.dat* and *data2.dat*, you should run

.. code:: bash

    now run -v simulation.py data1.dat data2.dat

The *-v* option turns the verbose mode on, so that noWorkflow gives you
feedback on the steps taken by the tool. The output, in this case, is
similar to what follows.

.. code:: bash

    $ now run -v simulation.py data1.dat data2.dat
    [now] removing noWorkflow boilerplate
    [now] setting up local provenance store
    [now] collecting definition provenance
    [now]   registering user-defined functions
    [now] collecting deployment provenance
    [now]   registering environment attributes
    [now]   searching for module dependencies
    [now]   registering provenance from 703 modules
    [now] collecting execution provenance
    [now]   executing the script
    [now] the execution of trial 1 finished successfully

Each new run produces a different trial that will be stored with a
sequential identification number in the relational database.

Verifying the module dependencies is a time consuming step, and
scientists can bypass this step by using the *-b* flag if they know that
no library or source code has changed. The current trial then inherits
the module dependencies of the previous one.

It is possible to collect more information than what is collected by
default, such as variable usages and dependencias. To perform a dynamic
program slicing and capture those information, just run

.. code:: bash

    now run -e Tracer simulation.py data1.dat data2.dat

To list all trials, just run

.. code:: bash

    now list

Assuming we run the experiment again and then run , the output would be
as follows.

.. code:: bash

    $ now list
    [now] trials available in the provenance store:
      Trial 1: simulation.py data1.dat data2.dat
             with code hash aa49daae4ae8084af3602db436e895f08f14aba8
             ran from 2014-03-04 13:10:34.595995 to 2014-03-04 13:11:33.793083
      Trial 2: simulation.py data1.dat data2.dat
             with code hash aa49daae4ae8084af3602db436e895f08f14aba8
             ran from 2014-03-04 17:59:02.917920 to 2014-03-04 18:00:10.383637

To look at details of an specific trial, use

.. code:: bash

    now show

This command has several options, such as *-m* to show module
dependencies; *-d* to show function definitions; *-e* to show the
environment context; *-a* to show function activations; and *-f* to show
file accesses.

Running

.. code:: bash

    now show -a 1

would show details of trial 1. Notice that the function name is preceded
by the line number where the call was activated.

.. code:: bash

    $ now show -a 1
    [now] trial information:
      Id: 1
      Inherited Id: None
      Script: simulation.py
      Code hash: aa49daae4ae8084af3602db436e895f08f14aba8
      Start: 2014-03-04 13:10:34.595995
      Finish: 2014-03-04 13:11:33.793083
    [now] this trial has the following function activation graph:
      42: run_simulation (2014-03-04 13:11:30.969055 -
                                    2014-03-04 13:11:32.978796)
          Arguments: data_b = 'data2.dat', data_a = 'data1.dat'
          Globals: wait = 2
          Return value: [['0.0', '0.6'], ['1.0', '0.0'], ['1.0', '0.0'],
          ...

To restore files used by trial 1, run

.. code:: bash

    $ now checkout -l -i 1

By default, the checkout command only restores the script used for the
trial ("simulation.py"), even when it has imports and read files as
input. Use the option "-l" to restore imported modules and the option
"-i" to restore input files. The checkout command track the evolution
history. By default, subsequent trials are based on the previous Trial
(e.g. Trial 2 is based on Trial 1). When you checkout a Trial, the next
Trial will be based on the checked out Trial (e.g. Trial 3 based on
Trial 1).

The remaining options of noWorkflow are *diff*, *export* and *vis*. The
*diff* option compares two trials, and the *export* option exports
provenance data of a given trial to Prolog facts, so inference queries
can be run over the database.

The vis option starts a visualization tool that allows interactive
analysis:

.. code:: bash

    $ now vis -b

The visualization tool shows the evolotion history, the trial
information, an activation graph. It is also possible to compare
different trials in the visualization tool.

We have also a graph visualization implemented in Java, named
noWorkflowVis, which connects to noWorkflow database and allows
interactive analysis.

IPython Interface
-----------------

Another way to visualize and query trials is to use IPython notebook. To
install IPython notebook, you can run

.. code:: bash

    $ pip install ipython[all]

Then, to run ipython notebook, go to the project directory and execute:

.. code:: bash

    $ ipython notebook

It will start a local webserver where you can create notebooks and run
python code.

Before loading anything related to noworkflow on a notebook, you must
initialize it:

.. code:: python

    import noworkflow.now.ipython as nip
    nip.init()

After that, you can load either the history or a specific trial graph:

.. code:: python

    In [1]:
      trial = nip.Trial(2) # Loads trial with Id = 2
      trial # Shows trial graph

    In [2]:
      history = nip.History() # Loads history
      history # Shows history graph

There are attributes on those objects to change the graph visualization,
width, height and filter values. Please, check the documentation by
running the following code on ipython notebook

.. code:: python

    trial?
    history?

It is also possible to run prolog queries on IPython notebook. To do so,
you will need to install SWI-Prolog with shared libraries and the pyswip
module: https://github.com/yuce/pyswip/blob/master/INSTALL

To query a specific trial, you can do:

.. code:: python

    trial.query("activation(1428, X, _, _, _)")

To check the existing rules, please do:

.. code:: python

    trial.prolog_rules()

Included Software
-----------------

Parts of the following software were used by noWorkflow directly or in
an adapted form:

The Python Debugger Copyright (c) 2001-2013 Python Software Foundation.
All Rights Reserved.

Acknowledgements
----------------

We would like to thank JetBrains for providing us a license for PyCharm.
We also want to thank CNPq, FAPERJ, and the National Science Foundation
(CNS-1229185, CNS-1153503, IIS-1142013) for partially supporting this
work.

License Terms
-------------

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.


