MANIFEST.in
README.rst
pyastyle.cc
pyastyle.h
setup.cfg
setup.py
astyle/build/cb-bcc/Bcc AStyle All.workspace
astyle/build/cb-bcc/Bcc AStyle Dll.cbp
astyle/build/cb-bcc/Bcc AStyle Java.cbp
astyle/build/cb-bcc/Bcc AStyle Lib.cbp
astyle/build/cb-bcc/Bcc AStyle.cbp
astyle/build/cb-clang/Clang AStyle A.cbp
astyle/build/cb-clang/Clang AStyle All.workspace
astyle/build/cb-clang/Clang AStyle Java.cbp
astyle/build/cb-clang/Clang AStyle So.cbp
astyle/build/cb-clang/Clang AStyle.cbp
astyle/build/cb-clang/copyfiles.sh
astyle/build/cb-dmars/DMars AStyle All.workspace
astyle/build/cb-dmars/DMars AStyle Dll.cbp
astyle/build/cb-dmars/DMars AStyle Java.cbp
astyle/build/cb-dmars/DMars AStyle Lib.cbp
astyle/build/cb-dmars/DMars AStyle.cbp
astyle/build/cb-gcc/Gcc AStyle A.cbp
astyle/build/cb-gcc/Gcc AStyle All.workspace
astyle/build/cb-gcc/Gcc AStyle Java.cbp
astyle/build/cb-gcc/Gcc AStyle So.cbp
astyle/build/cb-gcc/Gcc AStyle.cbp
astyle/build/cb-intel/Intel AStyle A.cbp
astyle/build/cb-intel/Intel AStyle All.workspace
astyle/build/cb-intel/Intel AStyle Java.cbp
astyle/build/cb-intel/Intel AStyle So.cbp
astyle/build/cb-intel/Intel AStyle.cbp
astyle/build/cb-intel/README.txt
astyle/build/cb-intel/intel-fix.sh
astyle/build/cb-mac/Mac AStyle A.cbp
astyle/build/cb-mac/Mac AStyle All.workspace
astyle/build/cb-mac/Mac AStyle Dy.cbp
astyle/build/cb-mac/Mac AStyle Java.cbp
astyle/build/cb-mac/Mac AStyle.cbp
astyle/build/cb-mingw/MinGW AStyle All.workspace
astyle/build/cb-mingw/MinGW AStyle Dll.cbp
astyle/build/cb-mingw/MinGW AStyle Java.cbp
astyle/build/cb-mingw/MinGW AStyle Lib.cbp
astyle/build/cb-mingw/MinGW AStyle.cbp
astyle/build/clang/Makefile
astyle/build/clang/analyze.sh
astyle/build/clang/copyfiles.sh
astyle/build/gcc/Makefile
astyle/build/intel/Makefile
astyle/build/intel/intel-fix.sh
astyle/build/mac/Makefile
astyle/build/vs2008/AStyle.sln
astyle/build/vs2008/AStyleDll.sln
astyle/build/vs2008/AStyleJava.sln
astyle/build/vs2008/AStyleLib.sln
astyle/build/vs2008/All AStyle.sln
astyle/build/vs2008/AStyle/AStyle.vcproj
astyle/build/vs2008/AStyleDll/AStyleDll.vcproj
astyle/build/vs2008/AStyleJava/AStyleJava.vcproj
astyle/build/vs2008/AStyleLib/AStyleLib.vcproj
astyle/build/vs2010/AStyle.sln
astyle/build/vs2010/AStyleDll.sln
astyle/build/vs2010/AStyleJava.sln
astyle/build/vs2010/AStyleLib.sln
astyle/build/vs2010/All AStyle.sln
astyle/build/vs2010/AStyle/AStyle.vcxproj
astyle/build/vs2010/AStyle/AStyle.vcxproj.filters
astyle/build/vs2010/AStyleDll/AStyleDll.vcxproj
astyle/build/vs2010/AStyleDll/AStyleDll.vcxproj.filters
astyle/build/vs2010/AStyleJava/AStyleJava.vcxproj
astyle/build/vs2010/AStyleJava/AStyleJava.vcxproj.filters
astyle/build/vs2010/AStyleLib/AStyleLib.vcxproj
astyle/build/vs2010/AStyleLib/AStyleLib.vcxproj.filters
astyle/build/vs2012/AStyle.sln
astyle/build/vs2012/AStyleDll.sln
astyle/build/vs2012/AStyleJava.sln
astyle/build/vs2012/AStyleLib.sln
astyle/build/vs2012/All AStyle.sln
astyle/build/vs2012/AStyle/AStyle.vcxproj
astyle/build/vs2012/AStyle/AStyle.vcxproj.filters
astyle/build/vs2012/AStyleDll/AStyleDll.vcxproj
astyle/build/vs2012/AStyleDll/AStyleDll.vcxproj.filters
astyle/build/vs2012/AStyleJava/AStyleJava.vcxproj
astyle/build/vs2012/AStyleJava/AStyleJava.vcxproj.filters
astyle/build/vs2012/AStyleLib/AStyleLib.vcxproj
astyle/build/vs2012/AStyleLib/AStyleLib.vcxproj.filters
astyle/build/vs2013/AStyle.sln
astyle/build/vs2013/AStyleDll.sln
astyle/build/vs2013/AStyleJava.sln
astyle/build/vs2013/AStyleLib.sln
astyle/build/vs2013/AStyleWeb.sln
astyle/build/vs2013/All AStyle.sln
astyle/build/vs2013/AStyle/AStyle.vcxproj
astyle/build/vs2013/AStyle/AStyle.vcxproj.filters
astyle/build/vs2013/AStyleDll/AStyleDll.vcxproj
astyle/build/vs2013/AStyleDll/AStyleDll.vcxproj.filters
astyle/build/vs2013/AStyleJava/AStyleJava.vcxproj
astyle/build/vs2013/AStyleJava/AStyleJava.vcxproj.filters
astyle/build/vs2013/AStyleLib/AStyleLib.vcxproj
astyle/build/vs2013/AStyleLib/AStyleLib.vcxproj.filters
astyle/build/vs2015/AStyle.sln
astyle/build/vs2015/AStyleDll.sln
astyle/build/vs2015/AStyleJava.sln
astyle/build/vs2015/AStyleLib.sln
astyle/build/vs2015/AStyleWeb.sln
astyle/build/vs2015/All AStyle.sln
astyle/build/vs2015/AStyle/AStyle.vcxproj
astyle/build/vs2015/AStyle/AStyle.vcxproj.filters
astyle/build/vs2015/AStyleDll/AStyleDll.vcxproj
astyle/build/vs2015/AStyleDll/AStyleDll.vcxproj.filters
astyle/build/vs2015/AStyleJava/AStyleJava.vcxproj
astyle/build/vs2015/AStyleJava/AStyleJava.vcxproj.filters
astyle/build/vs2015/AStyleLib/AStyleLib.vcxproj
astyle/build/vs2015/AStyleLib/AStyleLib.vcxproj.filters
astyle/build/xcode/install.sh
astyle/build/xcode/uninstall.sh
astyle/build/xcode/AStyle.xcodeproj/project.pbxproj
astyle/build/xcode/AStyle.xcworkspace/contents.xcworkspacedata
astyle/build/xcode/AStyleA.xcodeproj/project.pbxproj
astyle/build/xcode/AStyleDylib.xcodeproj/project.pbxproj
astyle/build/xcode/AStyleJava.xcodeproj/project.pbxproj
astyle/doc/astyle.html
astyle/doc/favicon.ico
astyle/doc/index.html
astyle/doc/install.html
astyle/doc/license.html
astyle/doc/links.html
astyle/doc/news.html
astyle/doc/newsArchives.html
astyle/doc/notes.html
astyle/doc/notesArchives.html
astyle/doc/scripts.html
astyle/doc/styles.css
astyle/doc/subversion.html
astyle/doc/vsinstall.html
astyle/src/ASBeautifier.cpp
astyle/src/ASEnhancer.cpp
astyle/src/ASFormatter.cpp
astyle/src/ASLocalizer.cpp
astyle/src/ASLocalizer.h
astyle/src/ASResource.cpp
astyle/src/astyle.h
astyle/src/astyle_main.cpp
astyle/src/astyle_main.h
pyastyle.egg-info/PKG-INFO
pyastyle.egg-info/SOURCES.txt
pyastyle.egg-info/dependency_links.txt
pyastyle.egg-info/not-zip-safe
pyastyle.egg-info/top_level.txt