.. _pydoop_script_tutorial:

Easy Hadoop Scripting with Pydoop Script
========================================

Pydoop Script is the easiest way to write simple MapReduce programs
for Hadoop.  With Pydoop Script, your code focuses on the core of the
MapReduce model: the mapper and reducer functions.


Writing and Running Scripts
---------------------------

Write a ``script.py`` Python module that contains the mapper and
reducer functions:

.. code-block:: python

  def mapper(input_key, input_value, writer):
      # your computation here
      writer.emit(intermediate_key, intermediate_value)

  def reducer(intermediate_key, value_iterator, writer):
      # your computation here
      writer.emit(output_key, output_value)

The program can be run as follows::

  pydoop script script.py hdfs_input hdfs_output


Examples
--------

The following examples show how to use Pydoop Script for common
problems.  More examples can be found in the
``examples/pydoop_script`` subdirectory of Pydoop's source
distribution root.  The :ref:`Pydoop Script Guide
<pydoop_script_guide>` contains more detailed information on writing
and running programs.

.. _word_count:

Word Count
++++++++++

The word count example can be considered as the "hello world" of
MapReduce.  A simple application that counts the occurrence of each
word in a set of text files, it is included in both the original
MapReduce paper [#]_ and in the Hadoop documentation as a MapReduce
programming tutorial.  The Pydoop Script implementation requires only
five lines of code:

.. code-block:: python

  def mapper(_, text, writer):
      for word in text.split():
          writer.emit(word, "1")

  def reducer(word, icounts, writer):
      writer.emit(word, sum(map(int, icounts)))

A few more lines allow to set a combiner for local aggregation:

.. code-block:: python

  def combiner(word, icounts, writer):
      writer.count('combiner calls', 1)
      reducer(word, icounts, writer)

Run the example with::

  pydoop script -c combiner wordcount.py hdfs_input hdfs_output

Note that we need to explicitly set the ``-c`` flag to activate the
combiner.  By default, no combiner is called.

One thing to remember is that the current Hadoop Pipes architecture
runs the combiner under the hood of the executable run by ``pipes``,
so it does not update the "combiner" counters of the general Hadoop
framework.  Thus, if you run the above script, you'll get a value of 0
for "Combine input/output records" in the "Map-Reduce Framework"
group, but the "combiner calls" counter should be updated correctly.


Word Count with Total Number of Words
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Suppose that we want to count the occurrence of specific words, like
in the example above, but we also want the total number of words.  For
this last "global" count we can use Hadoop counters:

.. code-block:: python

  def mapper(_, text, writer):
      wordlist = text.split()
      for word in wordlist:
          writer.emit(word, "1")
      writer.count("num words", len(wordlist))

  def reducer(word, count, writer):
      writer.emit(word, sum(map(int, count)))

The counter value will show on the JobTracker's job page and will be
present in the job logs.

Lower Case
++++++++++

To convert some text to lower case, create a module ``lowercase.py``:

.. code-block:: python

  def mapper(_, text, writer):
      writer.emit("", text.lower())

This is a map-only job, so we set the number of reducers to 0.  To
avoid leading tabs in our results, we also want an empty separator for
output key-value pairs: this is done via the ``-t`` option::

  pydoop script --num-reducers 0 -t '' lowercase.py hdfs_input hdfs_output

Job Parameters
++++++++++++++

Suppose you want to select all lines containing a substring to be
given at run time.  Create a module ``grep.py``:

.. code-block:: python

  def mapper(_, text, writer, conf):  # notice the fourth 'conf' argument
      if text.find(conf['grep-expression']) >= 0:
          writer.emit("", text)

Job parameters, like in ``hadoop pipes``, are passed via the -D
option::

  pydoop script --num-reducers 0 -t '' -D grep-expression=my_substring \
    grep.py hdfs_input hdfs_output


Applicability
-------------

Pydoop Script makes it easy to solve simple problems.  It makes it
feasible to write simple (even throw-away) scripts to perform simple
manipulations or analyses on your data, especially if it's text-based.

If you can specify your algorithm in two simple functions that have no
state or have a simple state that can be stored in module variables,
then you can consider using Pydoop Script.

If you need something more sophisticated, then consider using the
:ref:`full Pydoop API <api_tutorial>`.


.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#] J. Dean and S. Ghemawat, *MapReduce: simplified data processing
       on large clusters*, in OSDI '04: 6th Symposium on Operating
       Systems Design and Implementation, 2004
