:title: Concepts
:description: Iris combines a variety of common preprocessing and OCRing steps into a single job.

.. _concepts:

Concepts
========

Iris is a lightweight and flexible platform that aims to integrate all steps of
an OCR workflow to produce the best possible text from scanned input pages.

.. _concepts_tasks:

Tasks
-----

Each atomic function of iris is a single task. On the most basic level iris is
nothing more than a collection of tasks that can be combined in a multitude of
ways to alter input documents.

A task can be everything from an abstract process, e.g. binarization, to a
specific invocation of a particular program, e.g. the ocr_tesseract task. Some
tasks are native python code while others call external software.

.. _concepts_celery:

Celery
------

Executing singular tasks is rather useless. Celery is used to coordinate and
distribute the execution of a set of tasks, commonly called a job. A job is
nothing more than the execution of tasks in a predefined order and
parallelization level. 

Celery uses a message broker to communicate the tasks to be run to the machines
of the compute cluster. This documentation will not explain the use of celery
except on the most rudimentary leve. To learn more about celery peruse its
`documentation <https://celery.readthedocs.org/en/latest/>`_.

.. _concepts_storage:

Storage
-------

While celery can be used to distribute tasks it is unsuitable for file
distribution. To ensure that each machine has access to the same data a common
storage medium has to be used. Iris utilizes a simple directory on the file
system for all its storage purposes which can be placed on a network file
system like NFS to realize the synchronization between all machines in the
cluster.

For single machine use a normal directory set apart from all other use is
sufficient.

All tasks of a job usually operate inside a single subdirectory on the shared
medium. This directory should be globally unique and ensures that there are no
conflicts between jobs.

See Also
--------
* :ref:`Using Iris <using_iris>`
* :ref:`Troubleshooting Iris <troubleshooting_iris>`
