Juju Quickstart
===============

Juju Quickstart is a Juju plugin which allows for easily setting up a Juju
environment in very few steps. The environment is bootstrapped and set up so
that it can be managed using a Web interface (the Juju GUI).

Bundle deployments are also supported, and allow for setting up a complete
topology of services in one simple command.

Creating a development environment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The development environment is created using the
`tox <https://tox.readthedocs.org/en/latest/>`_ utility. To create the
environment, just run ``make``. The first time it is run, ``make`` also
installs the required system dependencies. For this reason sudo privileges can
be asked in the process. When the command completes the development environment
is ready and placed in the ``devenv`` directory inside the project's root.

At this point it is possible to start contributing to the project. The steps
for testing the application and running Juju Quickstart in development mode are
described below. Thanks for contributing!

Testing and debugging the application
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With the development environment correctly set up (after running ``make``), it
is easy to run the tests with the following command::

    $ make test

It is also possible to run a subset of the test suite by using nose directly,
as it is already installed in the development environment, e.g.::

    $ devenv/bin/nosetests quickstart/tests/test_app.py:TestWatch

To run the development version of Juju Quickstart while making changes, or
while reviewing a branch, use the following command::

    $ devenv/bin/juju-quickstart

The command above receives all usual Juju Quickstart arguments, so, for
instance, to start the interactive session::

    $ devenv/bin/juju-quickstart -i

To run the Python linter and pep8 checks, use the following command::

    $ make lint

When a feature branch is ready, before proposing it, check that the code tests
pass when Juju Quickstart is installed using the dependencies present in all
supported platforms and Ubuntu series. To do that, run the following::

    $ make check

The above leverages tox ability to create multiple virtual environments, each
one with a specific set of requirements. The ``make check`` command is also
run automatically when proposing a branch with ``lbox propose``.

As a final note, having the development environment ready, it is also possible
to use the ``tox`` command directly on the project. For instance, to run the
tests only on the ``vivid`` scenario, use the following::

    $ tox -e vivid

Run ``make help`` for more information about all the available make targets.

Running functional tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Juju Quickstart test suite includes functional tests exercising the
application execution against a real Juju environment. Functional tests are
not run by default (i.e. when using ``make test`` or ``make check``), but they
can be activated by setting the ``JUJU_QUICKSTART_FTESTS`` environment variable
to ``1``, or, in a simpler way, by running ``make ftest`` or ``make fcheck``.

Note that functional tests are not intended to be run in the day-by-day
development process. Their goal is to automate part of the release QA.

Functional tests require:

- some time to complete their execution: a real Juju environment is
  bootstrapped in the process;
- a Juju home correctly set up with at least one environment defined in the
  ``environments.yaml`` file;
- the selected Juju environment not to be in use;
- SSH keys already generated for the user running the tests;
- a working Internet connection.

By default, the current default environment is used to run those tests.
To change the environment, use the JUJU_ENV environment variable, e.g.::

    make fcheck JUJU_ENV=myenv

The environment used by the functional suite is destroyed after the tests
complete. The tests fail the selected environment is already in use.

To run the test using a customized build of Juju, pass the ``JUJU`` environment
variable to ``make``, e.g.::

  make fcheck JUJU=$GOPATH/bin/juju

Also note that when running functional tests against a local environment, the
password for sudo privileges may be asked while the suite is run.

Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Python requirements for Juju Quickstart are dynamically generated by
parsing the ``tox.ini`` file. To check the requirements list, run
``make requirements``.

Installing the application
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To install Juju Quickstart in your local system, run the following::

    $ sudo make install

This command will take care of installing the requirements and the application
itself.

Running the application
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

juju-core will recognize Juju Quickstart as a plugin once the application is
installed by the command above. At this point, the application can be started
by running ``juju quickstart``.

Run the following for the list of all available options::

    $ juju quickstart --help

Assuming a Juju environment named ``local`` is properly configured in your
``~/.juju/environments.yaml`` file, here is an example invocation::

    $ juju quickstart -e local

Project structure
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Juju Quickstart is a Python project. Source files can be found in the
``quickstart`` Python package included in this distribution.

A brief  description of the project structure follows, including the goals of
each module in the ``quickstart`` package.

* ``manage.py`` includes the main entry points for the ``juju-quickstart``
  command. Specifically:
  * ``manage.setup`` is used to set up the command line parser, the logging
    infrastructure and the interactive session (if required);
  * ``manage.run`` executes the application with the given options.

* ``app.py`` defines the main application functions, like bootstrapping an
  environment, deploying the Juju GUI or watching the deployment progress.
  The ``app.ProgramExit`` error can only be raised by functions in this module,
  and it causes the immediate exit (with an error) from the application.

The ``manage.py`` and ``app.py`` modules must be considered ``juju-quickstart``
execution specific: for this reason those modules are unlikely to be used as
libraries. All the other packages/modules in the application (except for views,
see below), should only include library-like code that can be reused in
different places by either Juju Quickstart or external programs.

* ``setting.py`` includes the application settings. Those must be considered as
  constant values to be reused throughout the application. The settings module
  should not import other ``quickstart`` modules.

* ``utils.py`` defines general purpose helper functions: when writing such
  utility objects it is likely that this is the right place where they should
  live. Separate modules are created when a set of utilities are related each
  other: this is the case, for instance, of ``serializers.py`` (YAML/JSON
  serialization utilities), ``ssh.py`` (SSH protocol related functions),
  ``platform_support.py`` etc.

* ``juju.py`` defines the WebSocket API client used by Juju Quickstart to
  connect to the Juju API server.

* the ``models`` package includes a module for each application model. Models
  are abstractions representing the data and information managed by Juju
  Quickstart, e.g. environment files, jenv files or charms. In the
  implementation of models, an effort has been made to use simple data
  structures in order to represent entities/objects, and composable functions
  to manipulate this information.

* the ``cli`` package contains the command line interactive session handling.
  Juju Quickstart uses Urwid to implement an ncurses-like interactive session:
  Urwid code must only live in the ``cli`` package.

That said, module docstrings often describe the goals and usage of each part of
the code: go have a look!

Pre-release QA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Run the Quickstart functional tests on all supported platforms::

  make fcheck

The general steps for manual QA (until we get a continuous integration set up
with functional tests) should be run on trusty, utopic and vivid.

* Ensure juju-quickstart is installed from the juju-gui/quickstart-beta PPA.::

    sudo add-apt-repository ppa:juju-gui/quickstart-beta
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install juju-quickstart

* Remove juju from the system.::

    sudo apt-get remove --purge juju-core

* Verify LXC environments can boot from scratch, using a local bundle::

    mkdir $HOME/bundles
    bzr branch lp:~charmers/charms/bundles/mediawiki/bundle $HOME/bundles/mediawiki
    juju-quickstart -e local -n single $HOME/bundles/mediawiki
    juju destroy-environment local -y

* Verify an environment that has already been bootstrapped is recognized and
  the GUI is deployed.  This test also shows that a remote bundle is properly
  deployed
::

    juju bootstrap -e local
    juju quickstart -e local mediawiki-single
    juju destroy-environment local -y

* Prove that an environments.yaml file can be created and used::

    # Temporarily move the .juju directory out of the way.
    mv ~/.juju ~/.juju-saved

    # Run quickstart and select the first option:
    juju quickstart

    # Ensure the GUI deploys properly and ~/.juju/environments.yaml looks
    # reasonable.

    juju destroy-environment local -y

    # Delete the data in the generated directory and restore the original
    rm -rf ~/.juju
    mv ~/.juju-saved ~/.juju

Repeat above on ec2.

Creating PPA releases
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Due to an inconsistency of package names for the websocket package introduced
with trusty, the juju-quickstart packaging must be handled separately for
series before trusty and trusty and later.  Consequently, there are two
packaging branches and two build recipes.  The two packaging branches are:

* lp:juju-quickstart/packaging, and
* lp:juju-quickstart/packaging-pre-trusty

For the following instructions we'll use the -trunk version but the procedure
is the same for the -pre-trusty branch.

The packaging repository (including the ``debian`` directory) can be checked
out from lp:juju-quickstart/packaging, e.g.::

    $ bzr branch lp:juju-quickstart/packaging packaging
    $ cd packaging

Check that the packaging version reflects the latest Quickstart version. The
packaging version can be found in the ``debian/changelog`` file present in the
packaging branch root. To print the version of the current Quickstart, from the
juju-quickstart branch root, run the following::

    $ make
    $ devenv/bin/juju-quickstart --version

If the ``debian/changelog`` file is outdated, install the ``devscripts``
package and use ``dch`` to update the changelog, e.g.::

    $ sudo apt-get install devscripts
    $ dch -i  # Executed from the packaging branch root.

At this point, edit the changelog as required, commit and push the changes back
to the packaging branch trunk, and follow the instructions below.

The procedure is analogous for pre-trusty series releases, just using the
other packaging branch.

The recipe for creating packages for trusty and beyond is at
`juju-quickstart-trunk-daily
<https://code.launchpad.net/~juju-gui-charmers/+recipe/juju-quickstart-trunk-daily>`_.

The pre-trusty recipe is `juju-quickstart-pre-trusty-daily
<https://code.launchpad.net/~juju-gui-charmers/+recipe/juju-quickstart-pre-trusty-daily>`_.

We currently publish beta releases on the `Juju Quickstart Beta PPA
<https://launchpad.net/~juju-gui/+archive/quickstart-beta/+packages>`_.
When a beta release is ready to be published, we move over the packages from
the Juju Quickstart Beta PPA to the `Juju stable PPA
<https://launchpad.net/~juju/+archive/stable>`_.

Packages depend on `python-jujuclient` and `python-websocket-client` to be
available. They are available in trusty and later, and they are also stored in
our PPA in order to support previous Ubuntu releases.  Note we depend on
version 0.12.0 of python-websocket and that version is in the PPAs.

Creating PyPI releases
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Juju Quickstart is present on `PyPI
<https://pypi.python.org/pypi/juju-quickstart>`_.
It is possible to register and upload a new release on PyPI by just running
``make release`` and providing your PyPI credentials.  Note there are no
series-specific changes required for publishing to PyPI.

Creating a Homebrew release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The brew formula fetches its source from PyPI, so it must be done after the
PyPI release.

1. Start with a fresh brew::

    $ brew update

#. Go to PyPI (https://pypi.python.org/pypi/juju-quickstart) and download the
   new tgz file.

#. Verify the md5 checksum matches that on the PyPI site via, e.g. ::

    $ md5 ~/Downloads/juju-quickstart-1.4.0.tar.gz

#. Use brew to edit the juju-quickstart formula::

    $ brew edit juju-quickstart

#. Update the URL to point to the new release tar.gz file.

#. Compute the SHA1 checksum for the tgz and insert it as the JujuQuickstart
   sha1 value::

    $ shasum ~/Downloads/juju-quickstart-1.4.0.tar.gz

#. Test the new formula by upgrading juju-quickstart (errors about bottle
   download failures are acceptable)::

    $ brew upgrade juju-quickstart

#. Run the formula test::

    $ brew test juju-quickstart

#. Perform full QA as above.

After successful QA, follow the procedure outlined in the Homebrew
`Formula-Cookbook
<https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew/wiki/Formula-Cookbook#commit>`_. The
project is adamant about having one file and one commit per pull request.
Rebase and squash commits if required.

1. Move to the brew git directory::

    $ cd `brew --repository`

#. Create a new branch, add the changed file, and commit::

    $ git checkout -b juju-quickstart-1.4.0
    $ git add Library/Formula/juju-quickstart.rb
    $ git commit -a -m "juju-quickstart 1.4.0"
    $ git push git@github.com:juju/homebrew.git juju-quickstart-1.4.0

#. Go to https://github.com/juju/homebrew to create a pull request.
#. Copy the debian/changelog from the lp:juju-quickstart/packaging as the pull
   request comment.  Keep the name simple, e.g. 'juju-quickstart 1.4.0'.
#. Watch the pull request and ensure it passes Jenkins.  If changes must be
   made, rebase the branch and squash commits before pushing.
#. If the branch makes it through CI without errors it will be accepted and
   merged without human intervention. A recent branch took about two hours
   from the time the pull request was made.

Tagging a new release
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When a new release is successfully done (meaning it passed the QA described
above and has been correctly published on PyPI, the PPAs and Homebrew), it is
time to tag it for future reference. To do that, just run the following
commands on the trunk branch of Juju Quickstart::

  $ bzr tag {version} # For instance bzr tag "1.6.0"
  $ bzr push :parent

Updating application and test dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Test and application dependencies are listed in the ``tox.ini`` file in the
branch root. Note that, since the source requirements are dynamically generated
parsing ``tox.ini``, when updating the list of dependencies in ``tox.ini``,
these rules must be followed:

- each scenario must at least include a "{[testenv]deps}" line in its deps,
  this way tests can be run correctly inside the virtualenv;
- keep each requirement in deps in its own line;
- always use specific revisions for environments (i.e. always use "==").

Also ensure, before updating the application dependencies, that the package
versions reflect the ones available for each supported platform and in the
`Juju Quickstart Beta PPA
<https://launchpad.net/~juju-gui/+archive/quickstart-beta/+packages>`_.

Please also keep up to date the possible values for the environments.yaml
default-series field (see ``quickstart.settings.JUJU_DEFAULT_SERIES``) and the
set of series supported by the Juju GUI charm
(see ``quickstart.settings.JUJU_GUI_SUPPORTED_SERIES``).

When introducing a new supported platform, do the following:

- add a new section in the ``tox.ini`` file with a sensible name and list the
  dependencies that we expect to be found on that platform/series;
- add the platform name to the envlist option (in the tox section of the file);
- if required, update ``quickstart.settings.JUJU_GUI_SUPPORTED_SERIES``;
- run ``make requirements`` and ensure that the dynamically generated list of
  requirements make sense;
- run ``make check`` and ensure all the tests pass.

Debugging bundle support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When deploying a bundle, Quickstart just start the import process sending an
API request to the GUI charm builtin server, and then lets the user observe
the deployment process using the GUI.

Under the hood, a bundle deployment is executed by the GUI builtin server,
which in turn leverages the juju-deployer library. Since juju-deployer is not
asynchronous, the actual deployment is executed in a separate process.

Sometimes, when an error occurs, it is not obvious where to retrieve
information about what is going on. The GUI builtin server exposes some bundle
information in two places:

- ``https://<juju-gui-url>/gui-server-info`` displays in JSON format the
  current status of all scheduled/started/completed bundle deployments;
- ``/var/log/upstart/guiserver.log`` is the builtin server log file, which
  includes logs output from the juju-deployer library.

Moreover, setting ``builtin-server-logging=debug`` gives more debugging
information, e.g. it prints to the log the contents of the WebSocket messages
sent by the client (usually the Juju GUI) and by the Juju API server.
As mentioned, juju-deployer works on its own sandbox and uses its own API
connections, and for this reason the WebSocket traffic it generates is not
logged.

Sometimes, while debugging, it is convenient to restart the builtin server
(which also empties the bundle deployments queue). To do that, run the
following in the Juju GUI machine::

    $ service guiserver restart
