flake8-import-order
===================

[![Build
Status](https://travis-ci.org/public/flake8-import-order.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/public/flake8-import-order)

A [flake8](http://flake8.readthedocs.org/en/latest/) and
[Pylama](https://github.com/klen/pylama) plugin that checks the ordering of
your imports.

In general stdlib comes first, then 3rd party, then local packages, and that
each group is indivudually alphabetized, see Configuration section for details.

It will not check anything else about the imports. Merely that they are grouped
and ordered correctly.

This plugin is under somewhat active development and is heavily influenced by
the personal preferences of the developers of
[cryptography](https://github.com/pyca/cryptography). Expect seemingly random
changes and configuration changes as we figure out how it should work.

Warnings
--------

This package adds 3 new flake8 warnings

* ``I100``: Your import statements are in the wrong order.
* ``I101``: The names in your from import are in the wrong order.
* ``I201``: Missing newline between sections or imports.

Configuration
-------------

You will want to set the `application-import-names` option to a comma separated
list of names that should be considered local to your application. These will
be used to help categorise your import statements into the correct groups.

`import-order-style` controls what style the plugin follows (`cryptography` is
the default):
  * `cryptography` - see an [example](https://github.com/public/flake8-import-order/blob/master/tests/test_cases/complete.py)
  * `google` - style described in [Google Style
Guidelines](http://google-styleguide.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/pyguide.html?showone=Imports_formatting#Imports_formatting),
  see an [example](https://github.com/public/flake8-import-order/blob/master/tests/test_cases/complete_google.py)

Limitations
-----------

Currently these checks are limited to module scope imports only. Conditional 
imports in module scope will also be ignored. The classification of an import
as being non-stdlib of some kind depends on that package actually being
installed.

``I103`` only checks that groups of imports are not consecutive and only takes
into account the first line of each import statement. This means that
multi-line from imports, comments between imports and so on may cause this
error not to be raised correctly in all situations. This restriction is due to
the data provided by the stdlib ``ast`` module.


