Pyt
===

Easy python testing for Python's unittest module.

Pyt's goal is to make writing and running Python unit tests fun and
easy.

Currently, there are two main components, the ``pyt`` command line test
runner, and the ``Assert`` class

pyt testrunner
--------------

So here was my problem, I would work on big Python projects, and I would
be adding a new python file to a module in this big project, for
example, my new file might be something like this:

::

    /project/foo/bar/che/baz/newmodule.py

I would be adding the ``Happy`` class with a ``sad`` method to
``newmodule`` and I would want to test it, so I would then have to add a
test for it:

::

    /project/test/foo/bar/che/baz/newmodule_test.py

Then I would want to test my new class method:

::

    $ python -m unittest test.foo.bar.che.baz.newmodule_test.HappyTestCase.test_sad

This got really annoying! Everytime, I would have to remember the syntax
to call unittest from the command line, and then I would have to
remember what I named the test case (let's see, was that
``HappyTestCase`` or ``HappyTest``), so I decided to take a bit of time
and simplify it, that's when ``pyt`` was born.

With ``pyt``, I just need to remember what I'm working on:

::

    $ pyt Happy.sad

and ``pyt`` will do the rest, it will check every test module it finds
in the working directory and see if it has a Happy test case with a
``test_sad`` method. No more having to remember the unittest syntax, and
no more typing long test paths. Hopefully, if tests are easy to run,
I'll write more of them.

More examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Continuing the above example

To run all the ``Happy`` tests:

::

    $ pyt Happy

To run all the ``newmodule`` tests:

::

    $ pyt newmodule

To run more than one test:

::

    $ pyt test1 test2 ...

To run every test ``pyt`` can find:

::

    $ pyt --all

Things to be aware of
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

pyt uses Python's `PEP 8 <http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/>`__ style conventions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``pyt`` uses PEP 8 to decide what is the module and class, so, given
input like this:

::

    $ pyt foo.bar.Baz.che

``pyt`` will consider ``foo.bar`` to be modules, ``Baz`` to be a class
because it starts with a capital letter, and ``che`` to be a method
since it comes after a class.

Vague input can cause pyt to run more tests than you expect
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

So if you have something like this:

::

    project/
      __init__.py
      user.py
      foo/
        __init__.py
        user.py
      tests/
        __init__.py
        user_test.py
        foo/
          __init__.py
          user_test.py

And you want to run tests for ``foo.user`` and you run:

::

    $ pyt user

it will run both ``tests/user_test`` and ``tests.foo.user_test``, the
solution is to just be more verbose when you have to be:

::

    $ pyt foo.user

pyt Assert
----------

This is a helper class designed to make writing assert statements in
your test cases a lot more fluid:

.. code:: python

    from pyt import Assert

    v = 5
    a = Assert(v)

    a == 5 # assertEqual(v, 5)
    a != 5 # assertNotEqual(v, 5)
    a > 5 # assertGreater(v, 5)
    a >= 5 # assertGreaterEqual(v, 5)
    a < 5 # assertLess(v, 5)
    a <= 5 # assertLessEqual(v, 5)
    +a # self.assertGreater(v, 0)
    -a # self.assertLess(v, 0)
    ~a # self.assertNotEqual(v, 0)

    v = "foobar"
    a = Assert(v)

    "foo" in a # assertIn("foo", v)
    "foo not in a # assertNotIn("foo", v)

    a % str # assertIsInstance(v, str)
    a % (str, unicode) # to use multiple, put them in a tuple
    a ^ str # assertNotIsInstance(v, str)

    a / regex # assertRegexpMatches(v, re)
    a // regex # assertNotRegexpMatches(v, re)

    # assertRaises(ValueError)
    with Assert(ValueError): 
        raise ValueError("boom")

    a == False # assertFalse(v)
    a == True # assertTrue(v)

    a * 'foo', 'bar' # assert foo and bar are keys/attributes in v
    a ** {...} # assert v has all keys and values in dict

    a *= 'foo', 'bar' # assert foo and bar are the only keys in v
    a **= {...} # assert v has only the keys and values in dict

    a.len == 5 # assertEqual(len(v), 5)

    # it even works on attributes and methods of objects
    o = SomeObject()
    o.foo = 1
    a = Assert(o)
    a.foo == 1
    a.bar() == "bar return value"

Installation
------------

Use ``pip``:

::

    $ pip install pyt

You can also get it directly from the repo:

::

    $ pip install git+https://github.com/Jaymon/pyt#egg=pyt

TODO
----

Glob support?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

add support for globs. Pyt already does prefix searching, but if you
wanted to match anything in front:

::

    pyt mod.Foo.*bar

Tests don't run in windows
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

I used ``/`` in the tests, and ``os.sep`` in all the pyt stuff, so it
runs on windows, it just doesn't pass the tests :(
