.\"                                      -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Dimitris Zlatanidis
.\"
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.TH pysed "9" "4 2015" "pysed"
.SH NAME
pysed is utility that parses and transforms text
.SH SYNOPSIS
Usage: pysed [-h] [-v]
             [[-r] [-l] [-g] [-s] --write]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpysed\fP is utility that parses and transforms text
.PP
CLI utility that parses and transforms text written in Python.

Pysed is a Python stream editor, is used to perform basic text transformations 
from a file. It reads text, line by line, from a file and replace, insert or 
print all text or specific area. Actually pysed is a passage of Python module 're'
in terminal.
.SH EXAMPLES
pysed is utility that parses and transforms text

Usage: pysed [OPTION] {pattern} {repl} {max} {flag} [input-file]

Options:
  -h, --help                   display this help and exit
  -v, --version                print program version and exit
  -r, --replace                search and replace text
  -l, --lines                  search pattern and print lines
  -g, --highlight              highlight and print text
  -s, --stat                   print text statistics
      --write                  write changes to file

.SH COLORS
 black, red, green, yellow, blue, magenta, cyan
.PP
.SH FLAGS
 I or IGNORECASE
 M or MULTILINE
 S or DOTALL
 U or UNICODE
 L or LOCALE
 X or VERBOSE

.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.SS
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-version\fP
Print the version of program and exit.

.SS -r, --replace, search and replace text
\fBpysed\fP \fB-r\fP \fB"pattern"\fP \fB"replace"\fP \fBmax\fP \fBflag\fP \fBinput-file\fP
.PP
Replace text with new.

.SS -l , --lines, search pattern and print lines
\fBpysed\fP \fB-l\fP \fB"pattern"\fP \fBinput-file\fP
.PP
Print lines found in pattern.

.SS -g , --highlight, highlight and print text
\fBpysed\fP \fB-g\fP \fB"pattern"\fP \fB"color"\fP \fBinput-file\fP 
.PP
Print text with indication of pattern.

.SS -s , --stat, print text statistics
\fBpysed\fP \fB-s\fP \fBinput-file\fP
.PP
Print text statistics split in lines, words, chars, blanks.

.SS -w , --write, write changes to file
.PP
Add this argument last to write the changes to the file.

.SH HELP OPTION
Specifying the help option displays help for pysed itself, or a
command.
.br
For example:
  \fBpysed \-\-help\fP - display help for pysed

.SH AUTHOR
Dimitris Zlatanidis <d.zlatanidis@gmail.com>
.SH HOMEPAGE
https://github.com/dslackw/pysed
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014-2015 Dimitris Zlatanidis

.SH SEE ALSO
sed(1)
