==========================
Installing MDAnalysisTests
==========================

The MDAnalysisTests package contains trajectories and structures
that are used in the test suite of the MDAnalysis package
http://code.google.com/p/mdanalysis. They should be installed together
with MDAnalysis.

However, the test files change less frequently, take up almost 20 GB
of space, and are not needed for daily use of MDAnalysis so they are
distributed separately from the main package.


Help
====

If you have any problems please read through the files INSTALL (this
file) and README and check the MDAnalysis project pages at

      http://mdanalysis.googlecode.com

in particular http://code.google.com/p/mdanalysis/wiki/Install and
related pages.

You can always ask questions on the MDAnalysis mailing list:

      http://groups.google.com/group/mdnalysis-discussion

People there are very happy to help. When posting please remember to
mention the release of MDAnalysis you are trying to install (e.g. "tar
file MDAnalysis-0.7.3 from website" or "subversion r818"), all the
commands that you typed to install the package, and the full output
(typically right from 'python setup.py build'). You should also
mention your operating system (e.g. Ubuntu 10.04) and Python version
(output from 'python --version') so that we can better diagnose the
problem.


Getting the source 
==================

Download a tar ball from
http://code.google.com/p/mdanalysis/downloads/list ; these
instructions apply to versions 0.6.0-rc2 or higher.

Alternatively, check out the MDAnalysis directory from the git
repository at http://mdanalysis.googlecode.com. See the source
checkout instructions for details
(http://code.google.com/p/mdanalysis/source/checkout). Typically:

  git clone https://code.google.com/p/mdanalysis/
  cd mdanalysis/testsuite



Installation from source
========================

In principle, installation should be as simple as unpacking the source
and executing from the top directory ::

   python setup.py install

This installs MDAnalysisTests in the system wide python directory;
this may require administrative privileges.

It is also possible to use --prefix, --home, or --user options for
setup.py to install in a different (probably your private) python
directory hierarchy. ``python setup.py install --help`` should show
you your options.

If you have problem at this stage then have a look at the operating
system specific notes at the end of this file or look in the issue
tracker --- maybe the problem is recognized and a work around can be
found in the comments



Selecting an installation directory
-----------------------------------

In order to install in a non-default directory one can use various
options to setup (see --help) such as ::

 python setup.py install --prefix LOCAL_DIRECTORY

or any of the other options of distutil's setup.py to install in
alternative directories, for instance

 python setup.py install --user



Easy Install
------------

We are also exploring the use of easy_install. This is experimental
but you might be able to do ::

  easy_install [options] ./MDAnalysisTests
 
A developer installation (that immediately reflects changes to the
sources) with ::

  cd testsuite
  python setup develop [options]

