Metadata-Version: 1.0
Name: qubell-api-python-client
Version: 1.37.37.0
Summary: Qubell platform client library
Home-page: https://github.com/qubell/contrib-python-qubell-client
Author: Vasyl Khomenko
Author-email: vkhomenko@qubell.com
License: Apache License
Version 2.0, January 2004
http://www.apache.org/licenses/

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

1. Definitions.

"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and
distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the copyright
owner that is granting the License.

"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other entities
that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that entity.
For the purposes of this definition, "control" means (i) the power, direct or
indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by
contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising
permissions granted by this License.

"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, including
but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and configuration
files.

"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or
translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled object code,
generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.

"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form, made
available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is included
in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, that
is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial revisions,
annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a whole, an
original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, Derivative Works
shall not include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by
name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original version
of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or Derivative Works
thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work
by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit
on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition,
"submitted" means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and
issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for
the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding communication
that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright
owner as "Not a Contribution."

"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf
of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently
incorporated within the Work.

2. Grant of Copyright License.

Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby
grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free,
irrevocable copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the Work and such
Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

3. Grant of Patent License.

Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby
grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free,
irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have
made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where
such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such Contributor
that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by combination
of their Contribution(s) with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was
submitted. If You institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a
Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or contributory
patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this License
for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.

4. Redistribution.

You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or Derivative Works thereof
in any medium, with or without modifications, and in Source or Object form,
provided that You meet the following conditions:

You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy of
this License; and
You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that You
changed the files; and
You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You distribute,
all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the Source form
of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the
Derivative Works; and
If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution, then any
Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of the
attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices
that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one of the
following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the
Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if provided along
with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative
Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of
the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the
License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative Works that
You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work,
provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as
modifying the License.
You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may provide
additional or different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or
distribution of Your modifications, or for any such Derivative Works as a whole,
provided Your use, reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies
with the conditions stated in this License.

5. Submission of Contributions.

Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any Contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the Work by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and
conditions of this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of
any separate license agreement you may have executed with Licensor regarding
such Contributions.

6. Trademarks.

This License does not grant permission to use the trade names, trademarks,
service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as required for
reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and
reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

7. Disclaimer of Warranty.

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the
Work (and each Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied,
including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE,
NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are
solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or
redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your exercise of
permissions under this License.

8. Limitation of Liability.

In no event and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including negligence),
contract, or otherwise, unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate
and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental,
or consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this License or
out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but not limited to
damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or
any and all other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has
been advised of the possibility of such damages.

9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability.

While redistributing the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to
offer, and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or
other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. However,
in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your
sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You
agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your
accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work

To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following boilerplate
notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own
identifying information. (Don't include the brackets!) The text should be
enclosed in the appropriate comment syntax for the file format. We also
recommend that a file or class name and description of purpose be included on
the same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier identification within
third-party archives.

   Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.

Description: Python-qubell-client
        ====================
        
        Repository contains:
        
        
        qubell/api/private - library to access qubell via dev (non-stable) api.
        
        stories - tests in python unittests format. Primary goal is to test qubell platform functionality
        
        
        Pre-requisites
        ==============
        
        - python2.7 or greater
        - requests
        - yaml
        - testtools
        - nose or pytest
        
        ```bash
        sudo pip install -r requirements.txt
        ```
        or
        
        ```bash
        sudo easy_install `cat requirements.txt`
        ```
        
        Configuration
        =============
        
        To configure tests, set up environment variables:
        QUBELL_USER, QUBELL_PASSWORD - user to access qubell
        QUBELL_TENANT - url to qubell platform (https://express.qubell.com)
        QUBELL_ORGANIZATION - name of organization to use. Will be created if not exists.
        
        If you attend to create environment, you will also need:
        
        PROVIDER_TYPE, PROVIDER_REGION, PROVIDER_IDENTITY, PROVIDER_CREDENTIAL - credentials for amazon ec2. (to create provider)
        By default Amazon ec2 used (in us-east zone)
        
        Example:
        ```bash
        export QUBELL_TENANT="https://express.qubell.com"
        export QUBELL_USER="user@gmail.com"
        export QUBELL_PASSWORD="password"
        export QUBELL_ORGANIZATION="my-org"
        
        # Additional parameters
        export PROVIDER_TYPE="aws-ec2"
        export PROVIDER_REGION="us-east-1"
        export PROVIDER_IDENTITY="FFFFFFFFF"
        export PROVIDER_CREDENTIAL="FFFFFFFFFF"
        ```
        
        
        Running tests
        =============
        
        Run single test::
        ```bash
        nosetests -s -v stories.instance.test_actions:BasicInstanceActionsTest.test_workflow_launch
        ```
        
        Run all tests::
        ```bash
        nosetests -s -v stories
        ```
        
        or just::
        ```bash
        nosetests
        ```
        
        If you need special environment to run your test, you can use restore_env.py script (see lime project).
        
        
        Using client
        ============
        
        
        Building sandboxes
        ------------------
        
        Sandboxes in qubell platform could be created on different levels. Maximum isolated sandbox could be achieved by separate organization (with it's own environments, users and application).
        
        Simple way to create sandbox (see ./contrib-python-qubell-client/sandbox/):
        Create file containing organization structure:
        
        cat default.env
        ```bash
        organizations:
        - name: DEFAULT_ORG
          applications:
          - name: super_parent
            file: ./super_parent.yml
          - name: middle_child
            file: ./middle_child.yml
          - name: child
            file: ./child.yml
        
          environments:
          - name: default
            services:
            - name: Default credentials service
            - name: Default workflow service
            - name: child-service
        
          services:
          - name: Default workflow service
            type: builtin:workflow_service
          - name: Default credentials service
            type: builtin:cobalt_secure_store
          - name: child-service
            application: child
        
          instances:
          - name: test-instance
            application: super_parent
        ```
        
        Run script:
        ```bash
        ./restore_env.py default.env
        ```
        
        After, you will have fully configured organization, even with running instances. This example shows how to describe 3-level hearchical application, where child instance launched as service.
        
        Note: do not forget to set up environment variables described before.
        
        
        Coding your own scripts
        -----------------------
        
        First way of creating sandbox, using restore method:
        
        
        ```python
        config="""
        {'organizations': [{'name': 'DEFAULT_ORG',
                            'applications': [{'file': './super_parent.yml',
                                              'name': 'super_parent'},
                                             {'file': './middle_child.yml',
                                              'name': 'middle_child'},
                                             {'file': './child.yml',
                                              'name': 'child'}],
                            'environments': [{'name': 'default',
                                              'services': [{'name': 'Default credentials service'},
                                                           {'name': 'Default workflow service'},
                                                           {'name': 'child-service'}]}],
                            'instances': [{'application': 'super_parent',
                                           'name': 'test-instance'}],
                            'providers': [{'ec2SecurityGroup': 'default',
                                           'jcloudsCredential': 'AAAAAAAAA',
                                           'jcloudsIdentity': 'BBBBBBBBBBB',
                                           'jcloudsRegions': 'us-east-1',
                                           'name': 'generated-provider-for-tests',
                                           'provider': 'aws-ec2',
                                           'providerCopy': 'aws-ec2'}],
                            'services': [{'name': 'Default workflow service',
                                          'type': 'builtin:workflow_service'},
                                         {'name': 'Default credentials service',
                                          'type': 'builtin:cobalt_secure_store'},
                                         {'application': 'child',
                                          'name': 'child-service'}]}]}
        """
        
        from qubell.api.private.platform import QubellPlatform
        
        platform = QubellPlatform()
        platform.connect(user="tester@qubell.com", password="password", tenant="https://api.qubell.com")
        
        platform.restore(config)
        
        # Let's check what we've got
        print platform.organizations['DEFAULT_ORG'].name
        for ins in platform.organizations['DEFAULT_ORG'].instances:
            print ins.name
        ```
        
        
        Second way, using get/create methods:
        
        
        ##### Organization
        
        Creating organization is simple::
        ```python
        from qubell.api.private.platform import QubellPlatform
        
        platform = QubellPlatform()
        platform.connect(user="tester@qubell.com", password="password", tenant="https://api.qubell.com")
        
        org = platform.organization(name="test-org")
        ```
        After executing this code, organization "test-org" would be created (if not exists) or initialized (if exists)
        
        Here is equivalent code:
        ```python
        try:
            org = platform.get_organization(id="123")
        except:
            org = platform.create_organization(name="test-org")
        ```
        
        
        ##### Environment
        
        Usual environment consists of cloud account, keystore service and workflow service. So, we need to add these services to our organization, then add them to our environmen:
        
        ```python
        access = {
          "provider": "aws-ec2",
          "usedEnvironments": [],
          "ec2SecurityGroup": "default",
          "providerCopy": "aws-ec2",
          "name": "test-provider",
          "jcloudsIdentity": KEY,
          "jcloudsCredential": SECRET_KEY,
          "jcloudsRegions": "us-east-1"
        }
        
        def prepare_env(org):
        
            # Add services to organization
            key_service = org.service(type='builtin:cobalt_secure_store', name='Default credentials service')
            wf_service = org.service(type='builtin:workflow_service', name='Default workflow service')
            prov = org.provider(access)
        
            # Add services to environment
            env = org.environment(name='new-environment')
            env.clean()
            env.add_service(key_service)
            env.add_service(wf_service)
            env.add_provider(prov)
        
            # Here we regenerate keypair
            env.add_policy(
                {"action": "provisionVms",
                 "parameter": "publicKeyId",
                 "value": key_service.regenerate()['id']})
            return org
        
        prepare_env(org)
        ```
        
        Now, platform ready to be used. We need only application with valid manifest.
        
        ##### Application
        
        We need manifest to create application::
        
        ```python
        manifest = Manifest(url="https://raw.github.com/qubell/contrib-python-qubell-client/master/qm/hierarchical-main.yml")
        
        # Creating application
        app = org.application(manifest=manifest, name='first_app')
        ```
        or
        ```python
        try:
            app = org.get_application(id="111")
        except:
            org.create_application(manifest=manifest, name='first_app')
        ```
        
        Application would be crated.
        To launch it, use code::
        
        ```python
        instance = org.launch(application=app)
        
        # This way we wait instance to came up in 15 minutes or break.
        assert instance.ready(15)
        ```
        
Platform: UNKNOWN
